---
title: "MicroPPO: Safe Power Flow Management in Decentralized Micro-grid with Proximal Policy Optimization"
authors: "Daniel Ebi, Edouard Fouché, Marco Heyden, Klemens Böhm"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-07-24-microppo
excerpt: 'We propose MicroPPO, a reinforcement learning approach for real-time management of power flows in small-scale energy systems.'
date: 2024-05-27
venue: "DSAA '24"
---
Future sustainable energy systems require the integration of local renewable energy sources (RES) into decentralized micro-grids, each containing RES, energy storage systems, and local loads.
A substantial challenge associated with micro-grids is the optimization
of energy flows to minimize operating costs.
This is particularly complex due to (a) the fluctuating power generation of RES, (b) the variability of local loads, and (c) the possibility of energy trade between a micro-grid and a larger "utility grid" that it connects to. Existing methods struggle to manage these sources of uncertainty effectively.

To address this, we propose MicroPPO, a reinforcement learning approach for real-time management of power flows in such small-scale energy systems. MicroPPO introduces a novel definition of the environment as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) with a continuous and multi-dimensional action space. This enables more precise control of power flows compared to discrete methods. Additionally, MicroPPO employs an innovative actor network architecture featuring multiple network branches to reflect the individual action dimensions.
It further integrates a differentiable projection layer that enforces the feasibility of actions.

We assess the performance of our approach against state-of-the-art methods using real-world data. Our results demonstrate MicroPPO's superior convergence towards near-optimal policies.

<a class="btn" style="text-decoration: none;" href="#" rel="permalink">Paper link tbd</a>